---
layout: post
title: Paxos Made Simple Note
math: true
---

This is the review for paper [Paxos Made Simple](https://lamport.azurewebsites.net/pubs/paxos-simple.pdf). 

### Problem 

There are a set of processes, each of them can propose values. 
How to ensure that one and only one of those values is chosen. 
Algorithms to solve these kind of problem is called **consensus algorithms**.
Paxos is one of them. 

### Paxos 

Three kind of agents in the algorithm: proposers, acceptors, and learners. 
They communicate through message passing. 

- Proposers: send proposal to acceptors. 
  There are two kind of proposal, *prepear proposal* and *accept proposal*. 
  
  *Prepare proposal*: $$(n)$$, $$n$$ is the unique proposal id.
  
  *Accept proposal*: $$(n, v)$$, $$n$$ is the unique proposal id, $$v$$ is the proposed value.

- Acceptors: accept or reject proposals.  

- Learners: keep track of the chosen value. 

Each kind has multiple instances in the system. 

To chose and learn the final chosen value, there are three steps in total, 
two for proposing value and one for learning the value.

- Phase 1: A proposer sends *prepare proposals* $$(n)$$ to the majority of acceptors. 
For each acceptor: if $$n$$ is greater than any prepare proposal request it has already responded,
it will respond to the request, with a promise not to accept any request with number less than $$n$$. 

- Phase 2: If the proposer receives a response to its prepare requests from the majority of acceptors,
it will send an *accept proposal* to each of those acceptors, $$(n, v)$$. 
For each acceptors: if it receive an *accept proposal* $$(n,v)$$, it accept the proposal if it has not responded to any request with number grater than $$n$$.

The $$v$$ that majority of acceptors accept, is the **chosen value**. 

- To learn the chosen value: 
There are multiple learners, each of them can inform all the other learners when a value is chosen. 
The acceptors will respond with their acceptances to some set of distinguished learners. 
Then learners can know the current chosen value and inform each other. 

To guarantee progress, a distinguished proposer must be selected as the only one to try issuing proposals. 

### Personal thoughts

The problem is not easy yet the solution is simple. 
Lamport's ideas are often simple and elegant. 
I should add more math in my education. 
Maybe that can help me to keep working till my 80. 




