---
layout: post
title: 'This Week in Coding: Every Tool is a Hammer' 
---

This week I read Adam Savage's book, Every Tool's a Hammer. And I love it. 

I watched a lot of Mythbusters when I was a kid. And now (Adam Savage's One Day Builds)[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G7MDrUG4cws&list=PLJtitKU0CAej22ZWBqrimPkn0Bbo6ci-r] is the Internet Holy Grail to me. Being a fan, I was biased before reading. But this book goes beyond my expectation. As a programmer, I found this book quite useful to my programming process. 

The book mainly introduces some principles Adam Savage uses in his building process. It covers three important things to me: how to get started, how to keep going, and how to handle failures. Here are some of my main takeaway from this book: 

- Newton's first law: every object will remain at rest or in uniform motion in a straight line unless compelled to change its state by the action of an external force. This means getting started is not just a simple switch, it takes an intentional force. It is almost the hardest part. When you can't find an immediate external force, use your own mind to create the force, use everything to create the force.
- Keep the momentum. Once you start, don't stop, keep yourself moving. The book mentioned list and checkbox system to keep track of the process. I tried them immediately, now I'm totally obsessed.
- Interface design: Screw > Glue. The difference between screw and glue is one is mechanical connection one is not. One allows assembling and dismantling. One doesn't.
- "Failure is always an option." (Mythbusters S07E01) Always expecting failures and always allocate enough time to allow failures to happen. When you need one, build three. When you need three, build five. Extra work during the process will make the result way more smooth.

At the beginning of the book, Adam mentioned this book is him slipping permission to everybody for them to start creating. At that point in reading, I didn't even realize there are so many things in my mind I want to do but I rejected them internally. I wonder if it is the same permission he slipped through Mythbusters allows me, a kid from a small city in a different country, to dream bigger than the reality and totally changed my life. 

Until next time. Happy coding :)



