---
layout: post
title: 'This Week in Coding: Struggling, Gladly' 
---

I'm learning the following things for the past couple of months: driving, swimming, and CMU 15445 intro to database systems. Have never struggled so much yet had so much fun at the same time. 

First let me tell you about the struggle with driving. If you know me for any amount of time, I probably mentioned once every week that I don't know how to drive. Most of my life I live in cities so it was really not a big problem. But there is this one thing! I really would like to drive a Jeep across the islands when I finally visit Hawaii. Something about cruising on the roads next to mountains and oceans really triggered something in my brain. So this time, we learn. The parking lot practices, aced them, no problem, never hit hard on the brakes, takes me about 15 mintues to learn parking. The highways and local roads, oh man, a total different story. The moments any car shows up in my sight, my hairs are standing up, hands are sweating. The honks! Ah! Who needs these negative energy when I already have 3 student driver bumper stickers on?! But anyway, those were the past, I am doing a lot better now. And the first time I did a long drive was during a perfect fall day, peak folliage, local single lane road. For that an hour and half, my brain might have hit a new high on Depamine.

Then it's swimming. I did learn how to swim as a kid then never got in any body of water for 20 years. So here we go again. It is less dramatic compare to driving, really just follow random youtube video and try. I didn't anticipate this but youtube did work in this case. Once conqure the fear of "drink too much pool water" and "afraid of looking really stupid", there is basically no big obstacles. Still drinking the pool water and looking real stupid twice a week at the moment. 

Then it's 15445. I have started 15445 a handful of times, none of them made very far. This time I did make a pact with myself to finish it. I'm at the final part of project 1 Buffer Pool Manager now. So far the project design is SO GOOD! Each module is picked apart so clean and force you to think clearly! It is insane. Things like this gives you faith in humanity. Here are some of my thoughts during the process:    
1) I sucked at c++. I didn't even know the language main features and common practices. I did "use" c++ in collage, but this really make me question "did I really learn those things then forgot" or "i just never heard of those things in the first place". But that doesn't matter. What matters is I'm slowly getting better. The lesson is, stay humble and be honest with yourself, and don't put too much faith in the past.  
2) The only way to debug is read through the code. Simple as it sounds I definetely took my fair share of "shortcuts" to avoid "read the whole thing". And those "shortcuts" only cost me more time and frustration. No matter how hard the project looks, don't be afriad, sit down and read it through. If somebody told you "oh you don't need to read the whole thing", then they are evil and wrong. Don't rush, sit tight, take notes, read through.  
3) Give yourself time. Learning takes A LOT MORE time than you anticipate. And the best way to do it is just don't try to estimate how much time you need to learn. Coming from the industry "agile" or "sprint" or whatnot mindset, it almost feels wrong to say "don't try to anticipate how much time you need to do a thing". Unlearning those experience and back to my own pace of doing thing feels pretty natural. I don't really care if I spend more hours, as long as I learn the thing, then I have achieved the goal.  
4) Show up everyday. Keep a log, show up every single day, no matter what's progress, maybe just clean up some code if it's a really hard to focus day, but just show up. I don't know how internally that works, but it does help you to feel less anxious and focus on work more. 

After all these tedius personal life stories, there is a conclusion I'm trying to make: **learning might be the most overlooked part of adult life, but it might be the most important**. 
 
There were some time in my adult life I wasn't learning as much or as hard as I am right now. And to be honest, I don't think those times were good. To be honest I don't really remember what I was busy with, probably something that doesn't deserve my time, like some negative depressive thoughts. 
But who cares about the past, from now on, learn! Learn new things! Learn things you have never thought about before. (Honorable mention I am forced to learn CAD because we bought a 3D printer and that is another story) Learn things you have studied in school but you were never happy about. 

Make the time, find the resource, face your fear, identify your flaw, show up over and over again, just learn! 