---
layout: post
title: Roadmap 2020  
---

As a New Year's Resolution, this is shamefully late. 

January was not fun at all. I was having the most painful experience in my life. 
Long story short, I got sick and couldn't sleep well for about a month.
These two combined caused me being extremely tired all the time. 

Now, two weeks after my recovery, I just realize I didn't properly plan out this year. 
So here it is, a simple, general, high-level, a little bit over-achieving 2020 roadmap for myself. 



There are three topics: **Go lang**, **Distributed Systems**, **Korean**. 

The past couple months, I was constantly switching between multiple programming languages. 
I have enough knowledge about them to use them but not enough to be good at any of them.
Narrowing down the focus seems necessary. 
Choosing go lang is because go lang's design allows and encourages me to write simple code, which is appealing to me, as a person coming from Java.   

Distributed systems is an old topic to me. But I never gather enough knowledge to make a complete knowledge system for DS.
2020 looks like a good year for doing that. 

As for Korean, I kept picking it up then dropping it. For this one, I hope to push it to an intermediate level.  

Regularly update this blog is also on my list. The goal is 2 posts/week. 

Besides all these learning goals, I hope this year I go out more. Travel to other cities, go hiking, or just take a walk. 
Need some outdoor activities to keep my vitamin-D level higher.  

Now the New Year's Resolutions are out there, I can start to work on breaking it now. :)  






